	This program is an implementation of a fast polygon
triangulation algorithm based on the paper "A simple and fast
incremental randomized algorithm for computing trapezoidal
decompositions and for triangulating polygons" by Raimund Seidel.

	The input is specified as a list of points (x, y). If the
polygon has n distinct vertices (the n+1 th vertex being the same as
the 1st vertex), then the file should contain only the n distinct
vertices in ANTI-CLOCKWISE order. Also, the polygon should be simple
(i.e. non self-intersecting) with NO HOLES. A sample data file is
included in the package (Notice the no point is repeated).

	Triangulation should produce (n - 2) triangles as the output.
(i.e. no additional vertices are introduced). The result is available
in the array triangles[][3], where each of triangles[0] to
triangles[n-3] contain the 3 vertices forming the triangle (the
vertices are numbered 1..n accoring to the input). The vertices of
each triangle are output in anti-clockwise order.
	
	Use gmake to create the executable. (There sould not be
any compilation problem. If log2() is not defined in your math
library, you will have to supply the definition)

	
USAGE:
	triangulate <filename>

Bibliography:

(Seidel 1991) R. Seidel. A simple and fast incremental randomized
algorithm for computing trapezoidal decompositions for triangulating
polygons. Computational Geometry: Theory and applications,
1(1991):51-64. 

(Fournier et al. 84) A. Fournier and D.Y. Montuno, Triangulating
simple polygons and equivalent problems, ACM Trans. on Graphics 3
(1984) 153-174.

Implementation report: Narkhede A. and Manocha D., Fast polygon
 triangulation algorithm based on Seidel's Algorithm, UNC-CH, 1994.

-------------------------------------------------------------------

This code is in the public domain. Specifically, we give to the public
domain all rights for future licensing of the source code, all resale
rights, and all publishing rights.

UNC-CH GIVES NO WARRANTY, EXPRESSED OR IMPLIED, FOR THE SOFTWARE
AND/OR DOCUMENTATION PROVIDED, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, WARRANTY
OF MERCHANTABILITY AND WARRANTY OF FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


				- Atul Narkhede (narkhede@cs.unc.edu)
